
The Saskatchewan Universal Health Act 

One Health Card, One Healthcare


SASKATCHEWAN made a promise over half a century ago.
A Single Payer Plan that provides high quality medical services at $0 point of care.

We chose to publicly care for, instead of privately gain from, one another.

It’s time to deliver on that promise in full. 


The New Coverage:

Mental Health:
Comprehensive stepped-care therapies, addictions services, Evidenced Based Modalities. 

Vision Health: 
Yearly exams, Basic Frames, All Lenses 

Hearing Health:
Yearly Exams, Hearing Aids, Implants when medically necessary 

Pharmacare:
All Medically Necessary Prescriptions

Dental Care:
Cleanings, Fillings, Restorative, Orthodontics when medically necessary 

Community Care:
Expanded Home Nursing and Care, Rehab, personal support, respite spots

Long Term Care:
Publicly owned, mandatory minimum staffing ratios


How it Works 

Just bring your Health Card. Any Medically Necessary service is covered at Opt-In Clinics and new Community Health Centres. Providers bill the Province, not you. 

What is deemed Medically Necessary is determined between you and you doctor acting within professional standards.

Professional Standards are set by Benefit Councils made up of actual clinicians, not bureaucrats. There will be a Benefit Council for each of the seven health areas so distinct needs are met. 

No duplicate private insurance. No extra billing. No passing the costs off to the employees.

How We Pay

A payroll tax for employees and employers, replacing private insurance premiums, called the Universal Health Levy in the following, independently advised, actuarial corridors:
Employee Pays: 2.0% - 3.5% 

Employer Pays: 2.5% - 5.5%

The revenue goes into a Universal Health Fund locked to insured services, administration, and stability reserves. 

Most Importantly the UHL cannot be clawed back from your paycheque by your employer.

Increasing Staff
 Health Programs will have Increased Seating and Practice Ready Pathways for the Internationally Educated.

Return-to-Service Scholarships and grants to ask those who retired or left the profession to return to service. 

Integrated pipelines with SaskJobs and the Saskatchewan Century Corps (SCC) to train, place, and retrain anyone who steps up. 
The Big Picture

This means no more hospitals as dental clinics, because you can go get the care you need when you need it at any dental clinic, just by using your Health Card. 

This means no more guessing what the board in the classroom says, because you can get the right glasses at any optometrist, just by using your Health Card. 

This means no more lost conversations and connections, because now you can get the right hearing aids, just by using your Health Card.

This means no more suffering alone in the dark, because you can get mental health treatment that suits your needs, just by using your Health Card. 

This means no more wondering if you can afford to take care of yourself in your old age, because you can go to any public facility, just by using your Health Card. 

This means no more choosing to leave your home before you’re ready, because you can get home care for all your needs, just by using your Health Card. 

This means no more choosing between medications you can afford, or the ones you actually need, because your meds are covered, just by using your Health Card. 


It means you don’t choose between health and wallet, 
Its not crazy
Its Saskatchewan. 











